# CS465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

Architecture
Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
NoSQL databases are quite popular now. They allow the developer to create store large amounts of data without the complexity of relation tables like SQL and allow for scaling quickly and are flexible in development, especially now in the days of agile. For the front end, we used Express, Node, and Angular. Through express, the website was set up using routes and controllers. These routes would be based on the parts of the webpages and the HTML that was already set up would just call the data over via routes and fill-in. The Angular SPA webpage takes a different approach where it is a single webpage and the the page will automatically update as the user interacts with it. The only parts that are changed are updated are the solo portions being intereacted with so everything done is immediate. We were able to use both of these to create a front end for clients and a front end for the administrators that would be handling the information going onto the client side. 

Functionality
How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
JSON is different from Javascript in that it is a format to store data. This JSON format is often used to transfer the data between different parts of a system. They are also super easy to read and are often preferred. The nice thing about JSON is it is also language-independent and the data can be used between different types of programming language which make it useful in large system where there are many components coming together. For that reason, it is one of the best ways to tie backend and frontend together because it can go back and forth seamlessly. During this project, we refactored code in certain areas using handlebars and JSON. Rather than consistenly copying and pasting the same code over and over, we were able to modify code and so that certain parts of the code would call out to another file and fill in the data from that file. This makes updating the files easier when needed because reather than updating the main source of code, they can go to the one place for example that is storing the current trips and update specific trips. We also used handlebars as a way to compile templates into JS functions. These were just two examples of ways we refactored code to be more efficient. 


Testing
Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
During the development of the full stack, testing becomes very important and should be tested incrementally rather than all at once toward the end. Whenever requests are being made, those requests should be verified that they are indeed getting requested and sent to the correct place once the coding is complete. For example, when using the express to pull data to the webpage to create a full page, if routing was not set up correctly, data may have not made it to the proper landing page. When we further add other methods that will update the pages or files/content in the database, it's important to ensure that all the methods and updates are being made properly. Adding security to the mix adds another layer of verification to be checked with the functionality of the application before the existance of the security system. In this specific project, adding security made it more difficult for me since I was able to get to one point but when the receiving update end was not ackowledging the token provided, the app was no longer working. It took some time before I was able to get the application working so the updates were functional after finding out why the token was not being recognized. In some cases, it may be just as important to think about things not being interacted with that can also be affected by any changes or haven't been tested in some time if it is an item that has not needed to be updated. 

Reflection
How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
This course has gotten me to be more familiar with what we would see in a full stack development scenario. I will say that although it was a lot of information and I'm still not sure I understood 100% everything, I feel more confident in being able to look up resources that may have some more background in getting these kinds of things done. The familiarity in itself I think it helpful so when in meetings or around others that speak the CS language, it is easier to make out what is what in the conversation. Something I have become more skilled in is bringing together all of these components that make a full program, specifically in a MEAN stack. Although there are programmers that may specialize in just frontend or backend, being able to do both is a great strength to have in being able to have a holistic view of the program. This holistic view can help lead to more questions that you can present your team with and help contribute to a more efficient program / product. 
